Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to briefly cover some Java 2 Enterprise Edition patterns.
Will focus on in this lecture is just a few of those and also the null object pattern so some patterns
I mentioned before we didn't cover.
So I just want to talk about it at a high level in this like so we'll take a look at no object and also
these seven J E patterns again at a high level.
We're not going to necessarily be able to go out and implement these but we're gonna be aware of them.
A lot of these j2 e patterns are kind of obsolete or not used as much as the Gang of twenty three.
So the no object pattern the intent of this pattern is to encapsulate the absence of an object by providing
a substitute alternative that offers suitable designed to do nothing behavior.
So this is a design where nothing will come of nothing essentially and this pattern we create an abstract
class specifying that very operations to be done a concrete class extending this class and an all object
class providing do nothing implementation.
Its use seamlessly where we need to check for null value.
So because java has this disadvantage of having objects be able to be null and there's no way to check
the malleability.
This pattern tries to do that.
It tries to make things sure that things are not null objects are not null.
So you can use this pattern when an object requires a collaborator or it makes use of the collaboration
that exists.
Also you can use this pattern when some collaborate or instances should do nothing.
You want abstract the handling of null away from the client.
That's really the purpose.
The no object class has often been implement as a singleton.
It's no object usually does not have any state so it state can't change.
So multiple instances are identical.
So you use a singleton and then you can do nothing and handle malleability of it better.
Again just a nice little pattern.
Now let's look at the J to e patterns the first one is the business delegate pattern.
This is used to decouple the presentation tier and the business.
Here we looked at MVC that sort of does some of this but it layers it in three.
This one layers it into a separate step.
Business logic from the local or from the UI user interface it can you be used to reduce communication
or remote lookup functionality to a business tier code in presentation to your code so it can also be
somewhat efficient.
It acts as a client side business abstraction it provides an abstraction for thus hides the implementation
of the business services all the business stuff is on the back end.
You can use this pattern when you want loose coupling between the presentation and the business tiers.
Or if you want to orchestrate calls to multiple business services or if you want to encapsulate service
lookups in service calls the components in this pattern include the client which is the presentation
tier code.
This could be a Java server page a servant or a user interface Java code the business delegate.
This is a single entry point class for client entities to provide access to business service methods
look up service.
This is responsible to get relative business implementation and provide business object access to business
delegate objects.
And then lastly the business service component.
These are concrete classes that implement this business service to provide actual business implementation
logic all right.
This is a high level description it's really just about separating that business logic from the user
interface.
The composite entity pattern.
This is an enterprise Java beans entity being which represents a graph of objects when a composite entity
is updated.
It will internally update all the dependent object beans.
They'll get updated automatically as they're being managed by J.B. entity being the following are the
participants in this pattern the context in the composite entity the context are entity beings are not
intended to represent every persistent object in the object model and entity beings are better suited
for coarse grain persistent business objects the composite entity is the primary entity being it can
be coarse grained or can contain of course grained object to be used for persistence purpose.
So this pattern has a lot to do with beans.
The following are the participants in this pattern.
As I mentioned the coarse grained object contains dependent objects it has its own lifecycle and also
manages the lifecycle of dependent objects.
The dependent object.
This is the object which depends on the course grained objects first persistence lifecycle and then
the strategies they represent how to implement it can posit entity again.
A quick rundown of composite entity by no means you're gonna go be able to go and implement this but
a high level has to do with being.
That's what you kind of got to think of and how you can separate coarse grain dependent objects.
The next one is the data access object pattern.
Many real world Java 2 Enterprise Edition applications need to use persistent data at some point.
Access to data varies depending on the source of the data.
Access to persistent storage varies greatly depending on the type of the storage if it's a database.
If it's different type of database relational versus object oriented.
If you're storing data on flash fire all those things will price distance mechanism.
It also varies depending on the vendor into implementation.
The data can reside in mainframe systems on different protocols like hold up or repositories.
The pattern is used to separate this low level data accessing API or operations from the high level
business services the data access object interface is composed in this pattern.
This defines a standard operations to be formed on a model's object.
The data access object concrete class implements the above interface and is responsible to get data
from a data source which can be database X AML or any other storage mechanism.
The model object or the value object is a simple Pogo plain old Java object containing get set methods
to store data retrieved using data access objects class so when you think of this pattern you can just
think of separating the data source from the business layer.
We don't care about how the data is stored or what protocols it's using.
And this separation can happen in this pattern.
The next pattern is the front controller pattern.
This is where all the requests that come for a resource and application will be handled by a single
handler and then dispatched to the appropriate handler for that type of request.
All right.
This kind of sounds like a chain of Ron's responsibility pattern.
It's not used as widely since MVC pattern was released MVC handles this much better but the presenter
request presentation to request handling mechanism must control coordinate processing of each user across
multiple requests when a user access is the view directly without going through a centralized mechanism.
Two problems can occur.
Each view is required to provide its own system services often resulting in duplicate code.
The View navigation is left to the views which may result in mixed view content and view navigation
problems also distribute controls more difficult to maintain.
Since changes will often need to be made in numerous places so this pad and world ensure that a system
has a centralized access point for presentation to your request handling to support the integration
of system services content retrieval view management and navigate the participants in this pattern are
the controller.
This is the initial contact point for handling all the question the system.
This is a centralization it may delegate to a helper to complete authentication authorization of a user
or to initiate contact retrieval.
The view represents and displays information to the client retrieves information from a model help or
support of use by encapsulating adapting the underlying data model for use in the display.
So you should be asking yourself this looks very similar to MVC and that's why this is not used as much.
The dispatcher is responsible for view management and navigation managing the choice of the next few
to present to the user and providing the mechanism for vector and control to this resource.
And then we have our helper that's responsible for helping a view or control or complete its processing
has numerous responsibilities.
One of them being gathered data required by the view and storing it in the intermediate model let's
talk about the intercepting filter design pattern.
This is a pattern for J to e which creates plugin all filters to process common services and a standard
mantle without requiring changes to correct request processing code.
So its use when we want to do some pre processing post-processing with request a response of an application.
The filters are defined and applied on their quest before passing the request to the target filters
can do the authentication authorization logging or tracking of requests and then pass the request to
the corresponding handlers.
So it's like an intermediary.
The participants include the filter which performs certain tasks prior or after execution of request
by request handler the filter chain which carries multiple filters and can help to execute them in define
order on the target.
The target is the request handler the pre or the post happened before the target or after the filter
manager manages the filters in the filter chain and the client is the object who sends the requests
to the target object let's look at service locator design pattern again I'm running through these pretty
quick but it's really just to give you a general General Idea a general sense.
This pattern is relatively old an old pattern.
It was very popular with Java.
The goal this pattern is to improve the modularity of your application by removing the dependency between
the client and the implementation of an interface.
Again these aren't used as much because we have the gang at 23 which is addresses a lot of these.
Now these are specific to j2 easy which is one of their benefits.
This one is use the service locator is used whenever we want to locate fetch various service says using
Java naming and directory interface.
For those of you that have used A.I. which typically is a redundant and very expensive lookup.
Right.
So this pattern can improve that performance because it encapsulates the process involved in obtaining
a service with a strong abstraction layer.
He uses a central registry known as a service locator which on request returns the information necessary
to perform a certain task the service locator is responsible.
Returning instances of services when they are requested for by the service consumers or the service
clients.
The pattern addresses this expensive lookup by using caching the very first time particular services
request that the locator looks it up in the Jandi ie fetches the relevant service and then finally it
will cache that service object.
Further look ups will use the cache that use the same service locator and so it improves the performance
of the application to a great extent.
The participants in this application or this pattern are the service the actual service which will process
the request and the reference of such service is to be looked upon in the NDA server the context the
initial context.
This is the Jan Di context which carries the reference to the service used for lookup purposes.
The service locator this is the single point of contact to get services by Jandi I look up catching
the services the cash is going to store the references of service to reuse them to increase performance
and then the client the object that invokes the services via the service locator.
OK.
Lot of patterns and a quick amount of time the last pattern that we're gonna discuss is this transfer
object pattern and that will do it for the J to w e patterns.
This is frequently used when we want to pass data with multiple attributes in one shot from the client
to the server to avoid multiple calls to a remote server.
Again performance based.
We can have a simple Poso class plane of Java object has getter setter methods and it's a reliable so
that can be transferred over the network.
It does not have any behaviour.
The server side business class normally fetches the data from the database and fills this Poso class
and then sends it to the client.
The following are the participants in this pattern.
The business object which fills the transfer object with data the transfer object which is a simple
Poso having methods to get set and get attributes only and then the client which requests or sends the
transfer object to the business object.
Okay.
That was a that was a handful.
That was a lot of information a lot of patterns.
But again the gist of it here is these are used for J to e besides a null object and a lot of marked
use too much and that's why we don't cover them in a ton of detail.
The 23 patterns from the getting a for a much more usable and actually address some of these concerns
some of the concerns in the data are more specific to j2 like the J and I look up the service locator
but again other patterns can be used for some of these.
A quick rundown by no means are you going to go and implement these patterns but again you'll least
if somebody mentions this term you say oh that's a data pattern and you'll have at least some idea.
Thanks for listening.